OK so in this video we're talking about these last three operations that you may not have come across
and you may be familiar with things like exponents but the syntax may be new to you.
So first one we'll talk about is the double star here.
So unlike the single asterisk which is used for multiplication two stars two asterisks will be used
to raise a number to a given power.
So let's try it out.
My terminal here open up Python 3 and let's do something like two to the third power.
So if you don't remember or you never covered this.
When we raised to the third power it's the same as multiplying two times two times two.
So we get eight or we could do things like four to the eighth power and numbers grow really big when
we start using X minutes.
The other thing to note is that we can do square roots or other roots using the same operator but rather
than raising something to a whole number we raise it to a decimal or fractional number.
So something like forty nine to the zero point five gives us seven.
So that's taking the square root of 49 which gives us 7 because this is a float we get a float back
if this is all new to you.
It's not really important to this course to be honest but just good to know.
So moving on next we have Margiela up.
Now this is one that we actually probably will use at some point.
What it does is kind of like division but it's also known as the remaindered operator.
So it takes two numbers and it will take one and divide it into the other number as many times as it
can without becoming fractional.
And then it will give us the remainder.
So as an example and make some space here let's say that I have 10.
And a lot of people say maade sort of Maggiolo a modulus.
So 10 maade three.
OK.
So three can go into ten three times.
Right.
Because three times three is nine.
Any other time after that.
It's larger than 10.
So it goes in three times and then the remainder is 1.
So we get one.
It gives us the remainder.
So another example let's do 25 rod four.
So how many times does four go into 25.
The closest thing is going to be six so six times for 24 so the remainder is 1.
So it's commonly used to do things like figure out if a number is even or odd.
So take a number like 13 and you modulo by two numbers even it's divisible by 2.
13 is not.
So it has a remainder of 1 but something like 16 to goes in eight times.
So the remainder is zero.
So this like I said is use to figure out if numbers are even or odd.
Which is actually surprisingly often in programming.
It's really the only time that I use it is something made to of course we know we're typing 16 and 13.
We know if there even or odd from the outset.
But shortly we'll be working with variables and this data won't be something that is hard coded in.
OK.
So that's monor modulus.
It's known as the remainder operator or the final weird operator is integer division 2 slashes.
So recall when or did something like 10 divided by three we get three point 3 3 3 3 3.
And even though these are two integers 10 and 3 we get a float back because Python does that by default
regular division.
Whether you give it floats or integers it's going to return a float.
But if we don't want that we can do 10 slash slash three.
And what this will do is do the division.
It just gives us an int in return.
So no float just an int.
So let's just try a couple of others let's do six divided by seven double slash.
You see it gives us zero.
So it rounds down chops off a decimal point.
All right.
So not that commonly used to be honest but it's good to know that it does exist.
If there's ever a time you don't want a float as a result from division you can use integer division.
All right so that wraps up these three wonky ones.
So we have exponentiation which we can use to square arrays.
Number two a power we can also use it to find the root of a number square root cubic root whatever we
have modulo which is probably the most foreign one.
If you've never program before it's known as the remainder operator and then we have integer division
works just like division except it doesn't give us a float.
It gives us an integer at the end.
So that wraps up the math part of this course.
Quick hopefully somewhat painless.
Now I have a super quick quiz it's only three questions so really quick.
Honestly the most important part from this entire section is just being comfortable with the differences
between ints and floats.
So do a quiz and then you will move on and it will be better it won't be math.
And hopefully we're all happier.
All right see in the next section.